The Check-Lister matches the names you submit against various databases of verified South African species names.

Matches are made in a conservative fashion: first perfect matches are evaluated, thereafter unmatched names are assessed using progressively less stringent requirements.  Rather than provide incorrect matches, the likelihood of a match must still be high for it to be included in the final listing.  As such, some names may not be matched, even if the name is fairly close to the correct name.  Alternatively the name may be correct, but is not listed in our databases.

The specific criteria whereby names are matched are as follows, from strongest to weakest:

Perfect matches, including subspecific epithets, ranks and taxonomic authorities.  For example, "Tylecodon albiflorus Bruyns" will be matched to "Tylecodon albiflorus Bruyns".
Names that are perfect, except they reference an outdated taxonomic authority.  For example "Osteospermum clandestinum Less." will be matched to the actual name "Osteospermum clandestinum (Less.) Norl."
Names submitted without taxonomic authority ('naked' names) will be matched to a (preferably current) name.  If there is more than one name in the database that matches then other possible entries will be included as notes.  For example "Rafnia ovata" will be matched to current species "Rafnia ovata E.Mey." with the note that "Rafnia ovata (P.J.Bergius) Schinz" (a synonym of "Rafnia capensis (L.) Schinz subsp. ovata (P.J.Bergius) G.J.Campb. & B.-E.van Wyk") is also possible.
Fuzzy matching to allow for minor typographic errors is then applied to fullnames with taxonomic authority and then 'naked' names. For example, "Afrodsciadium caffrum (Meisn.) P.J.D. Winter" will be matched to "Afrosciadium caffrum (Meisn.) P.J.D.Winter"
Names missing the autonym are then matched. Autonyms are when a subspecies or variety name that is the duplicate of the specific epithet. Autonyms are formed when a new subspecies or variety is described by an author. Autonyms carry the name of the author of the species and are based on the original type specimen; they do not require a new description. For example, "Delosperma exspersum" will be matched to "Delosperma exspersum (N.E.Br.) L.Bolus var. exspersum".
Confusion of subspecific ranks is next considered, where a plant name may indicate a rank of variety when it should be subspecies, or vice versa.  For example, "Duvalia caespitosa (Masson) Haw. var. caespitosa" will be matched to "Duvalia caespitosa (Masson) Haw. subsp. caespitosa". Names are first matched exactly and then allowing for slight typographic errors.
Finally, names with apparently incorrect taxonomic authorities are matched as if they were naked names.  For example, "Alepidea peduncularis A. Rich." will be matched to "Alepidea peduncularis Steud. ex A.Rich."